[MELISSA] Today, a new body
has been discovered,
and so we are going to give
it a CAT scan, X-rayed,
and samples taken.
We're also bringing Maria
back to get another sample,
and with us today,
is DR. KOROTKOV,
the biologist
from Mexico,
the forensic scientist
and also, the rest of our team,
Jaime, and our crew here
from the United States.
[NARRATOR] Recently, Jaime
Maussan scheduled an appointment
with Peru's Ministry of Culture
to request their participation
regarding further investigation
into the mummies
that were discovered.
He was met with disappointment.
Very disappointed.
We expected to be treated
by the Ministry of Culture
here in Peru.
Unfortunately, they sent someone
from the second or third level
to tell us that we should
send an email requesting
for something like this.
They don't have any
interest to cooperate
and to do any kind of
investigation around this case.
[NARRATOR] Meanwhile,
back in Cusco,
the team reunites
with Maria.
You see, last time when they
took samples from Maria's body,
I would think that it
would be the proof,
but first objection that came
to us from other scientists,
other people,
is it a real body?
Okay, no doubts now, real body.
But then somehow, they attached
three toes and three fingers.
They could have taken it from
some bird or from somewhere,
and they just attached it.
That is why I am really happy.
This time, we were able to take
samples directly from finger.
From finger, it was possible
to take it from inside
so we didn't damage the body.
And you can see this because
it's from inside so no doubt,
this is a finger.
Now, next step, we make an
analysis of these tissues.
Carbon data.
DNA analysis.
And if it matched with analysis
of the body, then it is done.
Then we have it.
If it's different, then
all the story fell apart.
Was it same DNA trend
as we have,
and only a little mutation
because the first objection,
oh, it's just a mutation?
Or it is different.
It is different subject,
different species,
different creature.
And then, of course,
depending on what we have,
we present in a different way.
So now we are filming how
I extracted the samples.
So it's no doubt that they are
taken from the different parts.
[NARRATOR] Wawita is the most
recent mummy recovered,
and the team felt that it looked
like a baby version of Maria.
First of all,
we see that this
looked like the same species.
Looked like.
Of course, now it's a
preliminary conclusion only.
And again, we see that
this was some
how prepared specially.
I believe same way as was Maria.
And what's interesting that we
found that to support the head,
they put some wool.
Absolutely, no doubt.
You see, they put it--
so it doesn't
belong to the body,
but still I will
get this sample.
So just for me,
it was very strange.
What it is, it's just
protection for the body.
[JAIME] They did it?
[DR. KOROTKOV] Yes, they did it
of course in ancient times.
But it has nothing to
do with human tissue.
For us, it was very in sync
and important to find out,
was it same dating of
the wool as the baby?
Or is it different?
I don't want to take
samples from the back
because it would damage it.
Maybe from the bottom.
You can keep it in your hands.
Upside down. Be careful.
That's important that I
was able to take a sample
from the baby because
it was bone, little bone.
Because it's a solid bone
and it is much easier
to make analysis
of solid bone compared
with just soft tissues.
And then, again, it gives
us a very clear answer,
what is the dating
of this sample?
What is the DNA analysis
of this sample
because I have no doubt it is
part of being, a little being.
And then, again, was it
matched with Maria?
Or is it different?
Even if it's different,
then it's understandable.
But then, again, the question
was it, male or female?
What's the construction of the--
what's the genes?
What's the DNA construction,
the genome?
So it will give us
a lot of information.
[NARRATOR] Next, the team
brings Wawita for X-ray imaging.
It was in the face down,
fetal position
so the team discusses
the best angle
to image the body with X-rays.
The team focused on comparing
this X-ray to Maria's.
Because the body
was so compressed,
it was difficult to
examine the details
so they focused on the hands.
More or less, it's
the same pattern.
Obviously here,
with a greater separation,
being that it is an infant.
There is a bigger separation.
The bones are shorter, but
it meets the pattern of five
in the palm, in the carpal, and
it divides to three fingers.
In doing a comparative analysis
with a normal human being,
does it match the
same bones of carpal?
No, these are too cylindrical.
It has three fingers,
but with five metacarpals.
[DR. KOROTKOV] From my glance,
of course I'm not a professional
so I don't want to make any
professional conclusions,
but from the first glance,
they were the same construction
as our bones.
The same two bones in
every part of the body.
So that's why it would
be confirmation
that it's the same
species of Maria.
[NARRATOR] Coming up,
further examination of Wawita.
[DR. KOROTKOV] I am looking
forward more to CAT scan.
Because from CAT scan, we've
seen construction of bones.
[NARRATOR] Plus, updates
from the samples taken.